Jmh binary tree bench with PGO (#148)
graalvm/graalvm-demos: jmh/benchmark-binary-tree/README.md

# Binary Tree Benchmark 

> This demo shows how to run a JMH benchmark as a native image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This demo shows how to run a JMH benchmark as a native executable.
```

> In order to build a native image of this application we need to run the native image tracing agent to supply

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build a native executable version of this application you need to run the native image tracing agent to supply
```

> the reflection config to the native iameg builder. This has already been done for you to save time and the generated 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the reflection config to the native image builder. This has already been done for you to save time and the generated 
```

> configuration can be found in, `src/main/resources/META-INF/native-image/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration can be found in _src/main/resources/META-INF/native-image/_.
```

> > **NOTE** To generate the configuration yourself, you will need to ensure that the JMH `fork` parameter is set to 0,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE** To generate the configuration yourself,  that the JMH `fork` parameter is set to 0,
```

> > which can be done from the command line with, `-f 0`, and this can also be done within the code using the `@Fork` annotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> which can be performed from the command line using the option  `-f 0`. It can also be achieved within the code by using the `@Fork` annotation.
```

## Build and Run as a Java Application

To build and then run the benchmark as a Java application, run the following commands:

```shell
./mvnw clean package exec:exec
```

Note that within the `pom.xml` file we are explicitly turning off GraalVM JIT compiler, with the flag, `-XX:-UseJVMCICompiler`. 

> This means that benchmark will run using the C2 JIT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that benchmark will run using the C2 JIT compiler.
```

> The program will run the benchmark and display, to the terminal, the results. We are interested in the final result. This is what we

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application will run the benchmark and display the results to the terminal. The final result is the most significant. You should see something
```

saw:

```shell
Benchmark          (binaryTreesN)   Mode  Cnt    Score    Error  Units
BinaryTrees.bench              14  thrpt    3  151.088 ± 15.815  ops/s
```

> ## Build and Run as a Native Image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Build and Run as a Native Executable
```

> Now to build a native executable, using Native Image. We are using Native Image Enterprise edition, if you are using Community

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now to build a native executable using Native Image. This demo uses Native Image Enterprise edition; however, if you are using Community
```

Edition you will probably see lower figures for throughput.

To build the native executable, run the following command:

```shell
./mvnw package -Pnative
```

> The to run the native executable, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, to run the native executable, run the following command:
```

```shell
./target/benchmark-binary-tree
```

This is what we saw:

```shell
Benchmark          (binaryTreesN)   Mode  Cnt    Score    Error  Units
BinaryTrees.bench              14  thrpt    3  104.281 ± 71.288  ops/s
```

> ## Optimise the Native Image - REQUIRES Enterprise Edition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Optimise the Native Executable  (REQUIRES Enterprise Edition)
```

> If you are using Native Image Enterprise Edition you can improve the performance of this benchmark by taking 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using Native Image Enterprise Edition, you can improve the performance of this benchmark by taking 
```

> advantage of a feature of Enterprise Edition, Profile Guided Optimisations (PGO).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
advantage of a feature of Enterprise Edition: Profile Guided Optimisations (PGO).
```

> **NOTE : This requires Enterprise Edition**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**NOTE : This requires Enterprise Edition**
```

> First you will need to build an instrumented version of the native binary that contains extra code to trace the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First,  you build an instrumented version of the native binary that contains extra code to trace the 
```

execution of the program and to profile it and therefore will run slower than the previous version. When the execution 

> has finished it will generate a profile file,`default.iprof` in the root directory. This profile file, containing 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
completes, it generates a profile file named _default.iprof_ in the root project directory. This file contains  
```

> profiling information about the application that can be used to optimise it, will be used to build a more efficient native executable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
profiling information about the application that is used to build a more efficient native executable.
```

To build the instrumented version of the native executable, run the following command:

```shell
./mvnw package -Pinstrumented
```

And then run it to generate the profile file:

```shell
./target/benchmark-binary-tree-instr
```

Now you have generated the profile file, build and run the optimised version of the native executable.

```shell
./mvnw package -Poptimised
./target/benchmark-binary-tree-opt
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see something like
```

```shell
Benchmark          (binaryTreesN)   Mode  Cnt    Score    Error  Units
BinaryTrees.bench              14  thrpt    3  172.042 ± 77.747  ops/s
```

## Your Mileage May Vary

> The results you see will vary depending on the hardware you are running on. The results above are from a 2019 MacBook Pro, i7, 32 GB RAM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your results may differ according to your hardware. The results above are from a 2019 MacBook Pro, i7, 32 GB RAM
```
